1.最左前缀匹配原则，非常重要的原则，mysql会一直向右匹配直到遇到范围查询(>、<、between、like)就停止匹配，比如a = 1 and b = 2 and c > 3 and d = 4 如果建立(a,b,c,d)顺序的索引，d是用不到索引的，如果建立(a,b,d,c)的索引则都可以用到，a,b,d的顺序可以任意调整。
2.=和in可以乱序，比如a = 1 and b = 2 and c = 3 建立(a,b,c)索引可以任意顺序，mysql的查询优化器会帮你优化成索引可以识别的形式
3.尽量选择区分度高的列作为索引,区分度的公式是count(distinct col)/count(*)，表示字段不重复的比例，比例越大我们扫描的记录数越少，唯一键的区分度是1，而一些状态、性别字段可能在大数据面前区分度就是0，那可能有人会问，这个比例有什么经验值吗？使用场景不同，这个值也很难确定，一般需要join的字段我们都要求是0.1以上，即平均1条扫描10条记录
4.索引列不能参与计算，保持列“干净”，比如from_unixtime(create_time) = ’2014-05-29’就不能使用到索引，原因很简单，b+树中存的都是数据表中的字段值，但进行检索时，需要把所有元素都应用函数才能比较，显然成本太大。所以语句应该写成create_time = unix_timestamp(’2014-05-29’);
5.尽量的扩展索引，不要新建索引。比如表中已经有a的索引，现在要加(a,b)的索引，那么只需要修改原来的索引即可.


联合索引的七种情况：
1 全列索引
	列顺序可以颠倒
2 最左前缀索引
3 查询条件用到了索引中的精确匹配，但中间某个条件未提供
	？精确匹配定义（“=”或者“IN”是否都是精确匹配）
4 查询条件未指定索引第一列
5 匹配某列的前缀字符串
	通配符%不出现咋开头，可以用到索引
6 范围查询
	范围列可以用到索引，必须是最左前缀，但范围列后面的列无法用到索引
7 查询条件列含有函数或者表达式
	mysql不会为此列使用索引

不建议使用索引情况：
1 表记录比较少
2 索引列的选择性比较低
	索引列的选择性=某列的不重复值的记录数/总记录数
	索引列的选择性值越大，越适合在该列上建立索引

order by语句索引优化
The index can also be used even if the ORDER BY does not match the index exactly, as long as all of the unused portions of the index and all the extra ORDER BY columns are constants in the WHERE clause. The following queries use the index to resolve the ORDER BY part:

	SELECT * FROM t1
	  ORDER BY key_part1,key_part2,... ;

	SELECT * FROM t1
	  WHERE key_part1 = constant
	  ORDER BY key_part2;

	SELECT * FROM t1
	  ORDER BY key_part1 DESC, key_part2 DESC;

	SELECT * FROM t1
	  WHERE key_part1 = 1
	  ORDER BY key_part1 DESC, key_part2 DESC;

	SELECT * FROM t1
	  WHERE key_part1 > constant
	  ORDER BY key_part1 ASC;

	SELECT * FROM t1
	  WHERE key_part1 < constant
	  ORDER BY key_part1 DESC;

	SELECT * FROM t1
	  WHERE key_part1 = constant1 AND key_part2 > constant2
	  ORDER BY key_part2;

In some cases, MySQL cannot use indexes to resolve the ORDER BY, although it still uses indexes to find the rows that match the WHERE clause. These cases include the following:

You use ORDER BY on different keys:
SELECT * FROM t1 ORDER BY key1, key2;

You use ORDER BY on nonconsecutive parts of a key:（不符合最左前缀原则）
SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE key2=constant ORDER BY key_part2;

You mix ASC and DESC:
SELECT * FROM t1 ORDER BY key_part1 DESC, key_part2 ASC;

The key used to fetch the rows is not the same as the one used in the ORDER BY:
SELECT * FROM t1 WHERE key2=constant ORDER BY key1;

You use ORDER BY with an expression that includes terms other than the key column name:
SELECT * FROM t1 ORDER BY ABS(key);
SELECT * FROM t1 ORDER BY -key;

You are joining many tables, and the columns in the ORDER BY are not all from the first nonconstant table that is used to retrieve rows. (This is the first table in the EXPLAIN output that does not have a const join type.)

You have different ORDER BY and GROUP BY expressions.

You index only a prefix of a column named in the ORDER BY clause. In this case, the index cannot be used to fully resolve the sort order. For example, if you have a CHAR(20) column, but index only the first 10 bytes, the index cannot distinguish values past the 10th byte and a filesort will be needed.

The type of table index used does not store rows in order. For example, this is true for a HASH index in a MEMORY table.




group by语句索引优化

The most general way to satisfy a GROUP BY clause is to scan the whole table and create a new temporary table where all rows from each group are consecutive, and then use this temporary table to discover groups and apply aggregate functions (if any). In some cases, MySQL is able to do much better than that and to avoid creation of temporary tables by using index access.

The most important preconditions for using indexes for GROUP BY are that all GROUP BY columns reference attributes from the same index, and that the index stores its keys in order (for example, this is a BTREE index and not a HASH index). Whether use of temporary tables can be replaced by index access also depends on which parts of an index are used in a query, the conditions specified for these parts, and the selected aggregate functions.

There are two ways to execute a GROUP BY query through index access, as detailed in the following sections. In the first method, the grouping operation is applied together with all range predicates (if any). The second method first performs a range scan, and then groups the resulting tuples.

In MySQL, GROUP BY is used for sorting, so the server may also apply ORDER BY optimizations to grouping. See Section 8.2.1.11, “ORDER BY Optimization”.

8.2.1.12.1 Loose Index Scan

The most efficient way to process GROUP BY is when an index is used to directly retrieve the grouping columns. With this access method, MySQL uses the property of some index types that the keys are ordered (for example, BTREE). This property enables use of lookup groups in an index without having to consider all keys in the index that satisfy all WHERE conditions. This access method considers only a fraction of the keys in an index, so it is called a loose index scan. When there is no WHERE clause, a loose index scan reads as many keys as the number of groups, which may be a much smaller number than that of all keys. If the WHERE clause contains range predicates (see the discussion of the range join type in Section 8.8.1, “Optimizing Queries with EXPLAIN”), a loose index scan looks up the first key of each group that satisfies the range conditions, and again reads the least possible number of keys. This is possible under the following conditions:

The query is over a single table.

The GROUP BY names only columns that form a leftmost prefix of the index and no other columns. (If, instead of GROUP BY, the query has a DISTINCT clause, all distinct attributes refer to columns that form a leftmost prefix of the index.) For example, if a table t1 has an index on (c1,c2,c3), loose index scan is applicable if the query has GROUP BY c1, c2,. It is not applicable if the query has GROUP BY c2, c3 (the columns are not a leftmost prefix) or GROUP BY c1, c2, c4 (c4 is not in the index).

The only aggregate functions used in the select list (if any) are MIN() and MAX(), and all of them refer to the same column. The column must be in the index and must follow the columns in the GROUP BY.

Any other parts of the index than those from the GROUP BY referenced in the query must be constants (that is, they must be referenced in equalities with constants), except for the argument of MIN() or MAX() functions.

For columns in the index, full column values must be indexed, not just a prefix. For example, with c1 VARCHAR(20), INDEX (c1(10)), the index cannot be used for loose index scan.

If loose index scan is applicable to a query, the EXPLAIN output shows Using index for group-by in the Extra column.

Assume that there is an index idx(c1,c2,c3) on table t1(c1,c2,c3,c4). The loose index scan access method can be used for the following queries:

	SELECT c1, c2 FROM t1 GROUP BY c1, c2;
	SELECT DISTINCT c1, c2 FROM t1;
	SELECT c1, MIN(c2) FROM t1 GROUP BY c1;
	SELECT c1, c2 FROM t1 WHERE c1 < const GROUP BY c1, c2;
	SELECT MAX(c3), MIN(c3), c1, c2 FROM t1 WHERE c2 > const GROUP BY c1, c2;
	SELECT c2 FROM t1 WHERE c1 < const GROUP BY c1, c2;
	SELECT c1, c2 FROM t1 WHERE c3 = const GROUP BY c1, c2;

The following queries cannot be executed with this quick select method, for the reasons given:

There are aggregate functions other than MIN() or MAX():
SELECT c1, SUM(c2) FROM t1 GROUP BY c1;

The columns in the GROUP BY clause do not form a leftmost prefix of the index:
SELECT c1, c2 FROM t1 GROUP BY c2, c3;

The query refers to a part of a key that comes after the GROUP BY part, and for which there is no equality with a constant:
SELECT c1, c3 FROM t1 GROUP BY c1, c2;
Were the query to include WHERE c3 = const, loose index scan could be used.

As of MySQL 5.5, the loose index scan access method can be applied to other forms of aggregate function references in the select list, in addition to the MIN() and MAX() references already supported:

AVG(DISTINCT), SUM(DISTINCT), and COUNT(DISTINCT) are supported. AVG(DISTINCT) and SUM(DISTINCT) take a single argument. COUNT(DISTINCT) can have more than one column argument.

There must be no GROUP BY or DISTINCT clause in the query.

The loose scan limitations described earlier still apply.

Assume that there is an index idx(c1,c2,c3) on table t1(c1,c2,c3,c4). The loose index scan access method can be used for the following queries:

SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT c1), SUM(DISTINCT c1) FROM t1;

SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT c1, c2), COUNT(DISTINCT c2, c1) FROM t1;
Loose index scan is not applicable for the following queries:

SELECT DISTINCT COUNT(DISTINCT c1) FROM t1;

SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT c1) FROM t1 GROUP BY c1;

8.2.1.12.2 Tight Index Scan

A tight index scan may be either a full index scan or a range index scan, depending on the query conditions.

When the conditions for a loose index scan are not met, it still may be possible to avoid creation of temporary tables for GROUP BY queries. If there are range conditions in the WHERE clause, this method reads only the keys that satisfy these conditions. Otherwise, it performs an index scan. Because this method reads all keys in each range defined by the WHERE clause, or scans the whole index if there are no range conditions, we term it a tight index scan. With a tight index scan, the grouping operation is performed only after all keys that satisfy the range conditions have been found.

For this method to work, it is sufficient that there is a constant equality condition for all columns in a query referring to parts of the key coming before or in between parts of the GROUP BY key. The constants from the equality conditions fill in any “gaps” in the search keys so that it is possible to form complete prefixes of the index. These index prefixes then can be used for index lookups. If we require sorting of the GROUP BY result, and it is possible to form search keys that are prefixes of the index, MySQL also avoids extra sorting operations because searching with prefixes in an ordered index already retrieves all the keys in order.

Assume that there is an index idx(c1,c2,c3) on table t1(c1,c2,c3,c4). The following queries do not work with the loose index scan access method described earlier, but still work with the tight index scan access method.

There is a gap in the GROUP BY, but it is covered by the condition c2 = 'a':
SELECT c1, c2, c3 FROM t1 WHERE c2 = 'a' GROUP BY c1, c3;

The GROUP BY does not begin with the first part of the key, but there is a condition that provides a constant for that part:
SELECT c1, c2, c3 FROM t1 WHERE c1 = 'a' GROUP BY c2, c3;
